appendix to HSC a procedural right up
Mexico trip House Select Committee on
assassinations staffers Gary Cornwall
Dan hard way
Edwin Lopez and Harold leap arrived in
Mexico City Airport at 8:30 p.m. May
30th 1978 all times our Mexico City
Times unless otherwise specified
they were met and escorted through
customs by David Patten an employee of
the United States embassy
the following morning May 31st 1978 the
HSC a representatives met with u.s.
embassy political officer Richard Howard
concerning procedure mr. Howard
scheduled a meeting at 11:15 a.m. with
the chief of the CIA station in Mexico
City
this meeting was preliminary in nature
and concerned procedures regarding
arrangement of the interviews of ex CIA
employees in Mexico at 12:00 noon the
HSC a representatives and Richard Howard
met representatives of the government of
Mexico the Mexican representatives were
one doctor hey-zeus Llanes advisor to
the Attorney General's executive officer
to Fernando Baeza chief administrative
officer for the Attorney General and
three commandant a Florentino Ventura
chief of the Mexican Federal Police
the Mexicans informed the staff members
at this meeting that they had located
Silvia Duran Horacio Duran reuben duran
and Pedro Gutierrez Valencia and that
each person was willing to be
interviewed by the HSC a representatives
footnote Pedro Gutierrez Valencia
claimed that he bumped into Lee Harvey
Oswald at the consulate on September 27
1963 Valencia was at the consulate doing
a credit check on one of the Cuban
employees in footnote procedure for
conduct of the interviews was also
discussed at this meeting the Mexican
government decided that the initial
interview would be an informal contact
with the witnesses in which the
committee's objectives would be
described the witnesses statements would
be formalized at a later taped interview
the Mexican officials informed the HSC a
staff members that they had been unable
to locate Oscar Contreras Elena Guerra
de Paz and Elenita Guerrero de Paz the
Mexican government had not had contact
with the garros since 1968 the Mexicans
said that they were trying to locate the
Gatos through the foreign ministry since
Elena's ex-husband Octavio Paz had once
been an important person in that
ministry the Mexicans asked that we
determined the name of the Mexican
government contact during 1964 with the
Warren Commission so that they could
locate their records in the archives the
Mexican officials left to set up the
preliminary interviews with witnesses
the preliminary interviews were
conducted by Gary Cornwell HS CA staff
members dan hard way
Edwin Lopez and Harold leap were present
during Cornwell's questioning the
Mexican government was represented by
dr. hey-zeus llanes commandante
Florentino Ventura and hey-zeus Mike
Schuh o Conte second-in-command to
Ventura Pedro Gutierrez Valencia was
interviewed at 2:30 p.m. reuben duran
was interviewed at 5:00 p.m.
Horacio Duran was interviewed at 5:30
p.m.
Sylvia Duran was interviewed at 6:15
p.m. at 9:30 a.m. on June 1st 1978 the
HSC a staff representatives met with the
Mexican police representatives the HSC a
staff requested one the records of the
company that employed Gutierrez Valencia
in 1963 press clippings of the Mexican
newspaper coverage of Oswald and Sylvia
Duran attached three once again an
interview with Oscar Contreras for
individual files on Elena Guerrero de
Paz and Sylvia Duran five evidence
related to Sylvia Duran's assertion that
Oswald was at the Cuban embassy on one
day only six an interview with David
Guerrero de Guerrero Galvan 7 an
interview with Eunice odio 9 an
interview with Emilio car by IDO foot
alena Gadara reported that at one of the
twist parties emilio Caballito and si bo
SQ had come to the conclusion that
kennedy had to be assassinated see also
section 6 C above in footnote and 10 an
interview with Victor Rico Galan
footnote Elena Garrow alleged that
Victor Rico Galan had claimed that Lee
Harvey Oswald had been Sylvia Duran's
lover see also section 6 C above in
footnote the HSC a also asked to be
shown the Cuban consulate the Mexican
representatives informed the HSC a staff
that Victor Rico Galan had at one time
been arrested on political charges but
that he was subsequently pardoned by
either Diaz Ordaz or Luis echeverria the
Mexicans said that they were searching
for all files and newspaper articles
requested by the HSC a the Mexican
officials also offered their
observations orally on the preliminary
interviews conducted the previous day
they pointed out that they found it
strange that Silvia had told Oswald he
could not travel while in Cuba they
wondered what Duran was trying to tell
Oswalt and whether she thought that
Oswald had some objective in going to
Cuba other than that ascribed by the
popular version they also considered the
manner in which Silvia obtained
employment at the Cuban consulate
unusual generally they noted that Sylvia
and her brothers seemed to have almost
programmed responses and a defensive
demeanor they pointed out however that
all the Durant's had been very
interested in talking to us and their
opinion reuben duran was the most
credible of those interviewed by the HS
CA the previous day at this point a
Mexican official who had been checking
the computer records informed us that
Victor Rico Galan had died HS CA staff
members provided the Mexican authorities
with the names of the Mexican officials
who had been involved in the
investigation in 1963 HS CA staff
members met a
with the Mexican police authorities at
10 a.m. on June 2nd 1978 at this time
the Mexican police provided the copies
of the newspaper clippings on the
assassination of John F Kennedy from the
Excelsior HS CA staff members asked if
the Mexicans could persuade the
newspapers to reveal the sources of
their stories about Oswald and Sylvia
Duran the Mexican officials response was
negative the Mexican officials informed
the HSC a staff members that most of the
data we wanted from the files was in
their security service files the Mexican
officials working with the HSC a
explained that they were the Mexican
equivalent of the FBI and that the
Security Service was the Mexican
equivalent of the CIA hence there was
the usual bureaucratic problem involved
in obtaining access to the security
services files the mexicans informed the
HSC a representatives that amelia
Garrido had been located that day began
not be located and that there was no
record of anyone named uniess OTO HS CA
representatives told the mexican
officials that oto who was either Costa
Rican or Guatemalan had been the
mistress of Emilio carburetor the
assassination and the reaction of the
Mexican people to it was discussed at
1:00 p.m.
HS CA staff members conducted an
interview at the United States Embassy
in connection with the CIA aspects of
the Mexico City investigation at 2:30
Gary Cornwall discussed problems with
the chief of the Mexico City CIA station
he requested that the COS cable
headquarters regarding restrictions
placed on the HSC a staff in Mexico at 6
p.m. the HSC a staff members accompanied
by hey-zeus mature EO Conte and his
assistant Hana Rio s Condon met with the
assistant chief of the Mexican security
service nazar mr. nazar gave an oral
resume of the interviews which Mexican
officials conducted in 1963 of Silvia
Horatio and reuben duran
and betty cerritos
mr. nazar said that the files had to be
formally requested before he could
consider releasing them he suggested
that we secure statements admissible in
United States courts from the witnesses
whom we wished to interview mr. nazar
suggested that our best investigatory
Avenue would be to concentrate on
Oswald's interrogation after his arrest
on November 22nd
mr. nazar had a very low opinion of
Elena Garrow deposits credibility he
felt that she confused fact and fiction
June 3rd and 4th 1978 were spent on CIA
related aspects of the Mexico City
investigation two interviews were
conducted all interviews with the
exception of interviews with CIA
personnel were taped and later
transcribed at 11:00 a.m. on June 5th
1978 the HSC a staff interviewed Horatio
Duran for the record at 1:00 p.m.
HHSC a staff member Edwin Lopez and
Mexican officials Hana Rios Condon and
dr. Alfonso Orosco Gutierrez interviewed
Pedro Gutierrez Valencia for the record
at 5:00 p.m.
HS CA staff members interviewed Lynn
Duran aka Lydia Duran for the record on
June 6th 1978 at 11:00 a.m. the HSC a
staff interviewed reuben duran for the
record at 1:00 p.m. the staff
representatives met with comandante
aventura the staff representatives
agreed to supply the mexicans with
questions for two witnesses oscar
Contreras and Ernesto
Liefeld Miller who could not then be
interviewed footnote the committee never
sent the Mexican government the
questions because a second trip to
Mexico was arranged and footnote
commandante Ventura authorized Hahn Oreo
is kundan to interview Oscar Contreras
Lartigue and Ernesto Liefeld Miller at 5
p.m. the wife of reuben duran betty
cerritos was interviewed for the record
at 5:45 p.m. Sylvia Duran was
interviewed for the record the HSC a
staff representatives left Mexico City
at 8:30 a.m. on June 7th 1978
arriving in Washington DC at 5:30 p.m.
Washington time